Section 1: Course Overview:

    Welcome to the Data Analytics Capstone!

        The capstone is the culmination of your degree program at Western Governors University. This course is your guide to completing the capstone project with success. It explains what the capstone is and outlines its essential parts.

        When you are ready to begin, you will be assigned to a capstone instructor. This will be a faculty member with the expertise necessary to guide and advise you as you complete each step of the process. Before you begin, please meet with your instructor to review this course and to make sure you understand the expectations and requirements associated with the capstone project in your degree program.

        The purpose of a capstone project is to allow you to demonstrate the application of the academic and professional abilities you have developed as a student. While capstone requirements differ by program, the expectations for quality are the same across all programs. The capstone challenges you to bring forth and display your best work.

        The capstone project is your chance to set the bar high. Whether you do something to satisfy your own curiosity or tackle something of interest to another, this is your work and you must take ownership of it. You should experience pride as your abilities unfold, learning from your own endeavors and the advice of your instructor as you work through this project

    Competency:
        This course provides guidance to help you demonstrate the following competency:

        - Competency 4123.1.1: Capstone
            The learner integrates and synthesizes competencies from across the degree program, thereby demonstrating the ability to participate in and contribute value to the chosen professional field.

    Resources:
        Instructor Assistance:
            As you prepare to demonstrate competency in this subject, remember that instructors stand ready to help you reach your educational goals. As subject matter experts, instructors enjoy and take pride in helping students become reflective learners, problem solvers, and critical thinkers. Instructors are excited to hear from you and eager to work with you. Successful students report that working with an instructor is the key to their success. Instructors are able to share tips on approaches, tools, and skills that can help you apply the content you are studying. They also provide guidance in assessment preparation strategies and can help troubleshoot areas of deficiency. You should expect to work with instructors for the duration of your coursework, and you are encouraged to contact them as soon as you begin.

        The WGU Library:
            As part of the capstone, you must gather relevant articles, documents, and books related to your project. The books and full-text articles housed at the WGU Library are a good place to obtain the information you need. For more information about using the WGU Library, view the videos at WGU Library Guides.

Section 2: The Capstone Project

    The Process: An Overview.
        All of the assessments in your program have led up to the capstone. Throughout the program, you have developed the competency necessary for a successful capstone project. Depending on your specific program requirements, you may be able to include some of your prior work in the composition of your project. Please keep in mind, however, that the rigorous standards for capstone projects may require you to revise and improve such work, perhaps significantly. Schedule a conference with your capstone instructor to discuss the process.
    
    Good Writing and the Capstone:
        Capstone work is an iterative process that depends on technical writing skills and the effective use of APA style and formatting.

        Remember that your capstone is the culminating project of your degree program. When archived, its artifacts will be published in the Capstone Archive. This archive can be accessed by students, faculty, administrators, and accreditors; therefore, it should represent your best writing.

        You may want to have a competent writer proofread your work prior to submitting it. You should allow for the possibility that one or more revisions will be required.

        Please keep in mind that your evaluator will require adequate time to review each submission. Due to the review, the completion of your project may take longer than you anticipated at the outset. If your project shows evidence of poor general writing skills, your evaluator may refer you to the WGU Writing Center

    The Capstone Archive:
        Western Governors University (WGU) has developed the Capstone Archive to display final capstone written work and presentations. These documents are made available to current students, instructors, and evaluators after you have graduated. You will have the opportunity to determine whether you wish to participate in the Capstone Archive. By participating, your scholarship and effort at WGU will be recognized, and you will have the satisfaction of contributing to the advancement of WGU and its students. Since your final capstone project will be shared with the WGU academic community, you should ensure it represents your best work—rigorous scholarship, research, and pedagogy. WGU has taken great care to ensure that safeguards are in place to protect academic authenticity and prevent the exposure of sensitive information.

            Security Considerations
                When you submit the capstone release statement, you agree to voluntarily remove confidential information. This includes not only your own personal details and contact information but also information identifying coworkers, organizations, etc., and their contact information. Read the Capstone Security and Anonymity document for more information about how your final capstone documents are protected in the archive.

            Student Examples from the Archive
                You can access the Capstone Archive to view examples of prior student work from across the university. Refer to the Model Capstone Archive section to view examples of competent student work in your own program that represent some variety in the way students approach project requirements. Some of the featured materials are artifacts produced along the way to the final product. This gives you an idea of what will be involved during your own process.

                You can also search the Capstone Excellence Archive section to examine the final artifacts from capstones across the university that were selected as exemplars of excellence in their degree areas. Some of these projects may be relevant to topics you are interested in pursuing. Please be aware that many of these projects do not follow the specific model outlined in this course.

    Capstone Project Requirements:

        It is the policy of Western Governors University that student capstone projects should not be based on or include any proprietary or classified information. Capstone projects should not contain any material belonging to your employer or any other organization, referred to as "restricted information," without appropriate authorization.

        Students are required to complete the IT Capstone Project Waiver or Release Statement when submitting any capstone work and declare one of the following:

            A. The capstone project is not based on and does not include restricted information.
                or
            B. The capstone project is based on and/or includes restricted information.

        If the capstone project is based on and/or includes restricted information, students are required to obtain authorization to use this information. Refer to the "Project Waiver or Release Statement" section in the Capstone Waiver Forms for more details. Permission to use restricted information must be obtained and included with the submission of any capstone work.

            Please note: Failure to submit the appropriate documentation along with your capstone work will result in a returned submission.

    Capstone Topic Approval Forms (Task 1)
        In order to start the capstone project, you must first discuss your project idea with an instructor. For Task 1, you will propose your idea for a capstone project. Your capstone proposal serves the purpose of organizing your idea for the entire project and all project deliverables, so take adequate time to work through this task to ensure your proposed idea can support your project.

        After you reach an agreement with your instructor regarding your proposal, you will complete the "Capstone Topic Approval Form" and send it to the instructor, who will approve and digitally sign it. At the completion of this task, you will upload the approved form as instructed in the assessment platform, along with the other required documents for this task.

        The rubric for Task 1 provides detailed criteria that will be used to evaluate your work. Be sure to refer to this rubric in the assessment platform as you are creating the elements of your proposal to keep your project on track.

        Formatting and Organizational Style
            Remember that you are writing a proposal (i.e., the project has not yet taken place), so be sure to write in the future tense. Use APA style for your citations. APA is used by most college and university departments, including the WGU College of Information Technology, to guide students and faculty in producing consistently formatted work. Consult the APA style manual for additional assistance with correct citation and articulation.

        Task Requirements
            Read over the Task 1 instructions carefully, structure your writing accordingly, and address all required elements in your proposal. Be sure to reference the instructions in the assessment platform for additional information and the forms required for this task.

        For Task 1, here are the forms to complete:
            - Capstone Topic Approval Form
            - Capstone Release Form
        
        For more information, refer to the Task 1 directions in the assessment platform 

    The Project (Tasks 2 and 3)

        In these tasks, you will work through the design and development of your idea.

        Before starting Task 2, ensure that your proposal (Task 1) has been approved by an instructor. If your proposal has not been approved, or if you have not submitted the required forms for Task 1, your Task 2 submission will be returned without evaluation. Similarly, you must submit Task 2 and have it evaluated before you submit Task 3.

        The rubrics for Task 2 and Task 3 provide detailed criteria that will be used to evaluate your work. Be sure to refer to these rubrics in the assessment platform as you are creating the elements of your project.

            Task Requirements
                Read over the task instructions carefully, structure your writing accordingly, and address all required elements in your project.

                Your capstone project submission will include the following:
                - A report that includes the problem, the stakeholders, the project requirements, an assessment of risks, a projected timeline, and more
                - A technology-supported security solution that addresses your identified business problem or organizational need
                - Documentation for the solution you have developed
                - Acknowledged sources, in-text citations, and references for content that is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized
                - Professional-level communication in the content and presentation
                
                Be sure to refer to the assessment instructions for more information, including the specific requirements for each deliverable. If you feel stuck or confused at any time, contact your capstone instructor for guidance.

            Project Submission
                Submit your completed capstone project as instructed in the assessment platform. For more information about this task and its requirements, refer to the task's assessment instructions.

    Conclusion:
        You made it! This completes the Data Analytics Capstone course. Congratulations on a job well done!
